.TH AMLOGIC-FIRMWARE-TOOL 1 "April 2026" "Amlogic Firmware Tool" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
amlogic_firmware_tool.sh \- Extract, inspect and process Amlogic firmware images

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amlogic_firmware_tool.sh
.RI [ options ] " <firmware.img>"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The Amlogic Firmware Tool provides a unified interface for unpacking,
inspecting and processing Amlogic-based Android firmware images. It
automatically detects partition formats, converts sparse images, and
extracts filesystem contents for analysis or modification.

The tool includes automatic dependency detection, auto-building of
simg2img from source, and helper utilities for magic-byte validation.

.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Automatic sparse image conversion
Converts Android sparse images to raw ext4 using simg2img.

.TP
.B Magic-byte detection
Identifies partition formats (sparse, ext4, gzip, bootloader).

.TP
.B Auto-build dependencies
Automatically compiles simg2img from source if missing.

.TP
.B Outer firmware unpacking
Supports Amlogic outer container extraction via Python helper.

.TP
.B Clean directory structure
Outputs extracted partitions into organized folders.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help and usage information.

.TP
.B \-o <dir>, \-\-output <dir>
Specify output directory for extracted partitions.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
The following system utilities must be available:
.IP \(bu 2
xxd
.IP \(bu 2
python3
.IP \(bu 2
gunzip
.IP \(bu 2
losetup
.IP \(bu 2
mount

The tool will automatically install or build additional components such as
simg2img and verify_magic.sh if missing.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/aml-firmware-tool/
Default installation directory.

.TP
.I /usr/share/applications/AmlogicFirmwareTool.desktop
Desktop launcher entry.

.TP
.I /usr/share/icons/amlogic.png
Application icon.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Extract a firmware image:
.RS
.nf
$ amlogic_firmware_tool.sh firmware.img
.fi
.RE

.TP
Extract to a specific directory:
.RS
.nf
$ amlogic_firmware_tool.sh -o output_dir firmware.img
.fi
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Frixos (lukumaki).

.SH LICENSE
Distributed under the MIT License.

.SH SEE ALSO
simg2img(1), mount(8), losetup(8)
